## **Explain the difference between a container, a pod, and a deployment in Kubernetes.**

- A container is a package with the program to execute and all its dependencies, such as the code, runtime, system libraries, etc., bound together in a box. You can create containers using any container platform like Docker. To run a container on Docker, you provide the specifications to run this container on the command line.

- Kubernetes modifies this process and brings an enterprise model to it. Instead of writing all of these things in the command line, you can create a YAML manifest and define all of these things inside this YAML manifest. A pod YAML manifest is nothing but a running specification of your Docker container. The only difference here is that a pod can be a single or multiple containers. You can create multiple containers in a pod if you have an application that is dependent on another application without which it cannot run.

- Finally, what is a deployment? A deployment is used to manage and scale your pods. If you can deploy an application as a container in Kubernetes using a pod, what is the purpose of using a deployment? The answer is simple: One of the reasons to move from container platforms like Docker to Kubernetes is the auto-healing and auto-scaling behavior that Kubernetes offers. A pod, which is similar to a container, does not have the capability to implement auto-healing and auto-scaling. This is where deployments come in. Deployments in Kubernetes offer the ability to implement auto-healing and auto-scaling.
  Instead of deploying your applications as pods in Kubernetes, you should deploy them as deployments. A deployment will create an intermediate resource called a replica set, which will then create pods. The advantage of using a deployment is that you can specify the desired number of replicas for your pods, allowing you to easily scale your application.

- The replica set is a Kubernetes controller that ensures that the desired state of your application, as specified in the deployment YAML manifest, is always maintained on the cluster. This includes implementing the  **auto-healing** and  **auto-scaling** behavior of your pods.
  If you specify in your deployment YAML manifest that you want a certain number of replicas for your pods, the replica set will ensure that this number of replicas is always running. If a pod is deleted or fails, the replica set will automatically create a new pod to maintain the desired number of replicas. Similarly, if you want to increase or decrease the number of replicas, you can simply update the deployment YAML manifest and the replica set will automatically scale the number of pods accordingly.
